Tools

We will start building a static website. To do this we will learn HTML and CSS. In addition to this, we will use some programming tools: a code editor \(the MS Word/Libreoffice Writer for programmer\), Git and Github

Git is a version control system. Maybe you have allready encountered the following problem. You are writing a report on something, and while doing so you end up with a dozen of files on your computer with names like report-v1, report-v2-corrected, report-final, ... It is the job of Git to avoid this kind of chaos happens with your code files. Git remember which changes you made. Because of Git you don't have to rename your files all the time, while you can still go back to older versions at any time. On top of that each version has a comment stored with it, to help you remember what exactly you changed in this version. 

As the name already suggests, Github has something to do with Git. It is a central location in the internat where you can store your codefiles with the help of git. The aim of Github is  to make it possible for you to access your codefiles from everywhere. Also, it allows you to work together with other people on a programming project, as you can allow multiple people to change your files on Github. Github is very popular with software developers, as a lot of projects are to big to do on your own, and teams often are not at the same place but spread out over thw world. 

The easiest way to use git is using the command line. Command line is a language used to pass commands to your operating system and your programms. All the things that can be done on your computer by using the mouse, can also be done with commandline commands. Command line is rather hard at the beginning, and you might ask yourself whether this is really necessary, which is something every developer has asked themselves at the beginning. But once you are used to it, a lot of things are much easier to do by command line than using the mouse. Another advantage is that we can describe the command line commands more precisely in this tutorial than if we would have to describe you what to do with the mouse. The program, meaning the window in which you can enter your command line command is called terminal, but sometimes people also call it console, shell, prompt or command line. 

The most important thing you should know about command line is that the commands you type here are often meant to work on a specific place in your filesystem, thiscan be the Documents folder, the Downloads forlder, or the Home folder for example. The commands usually work on the place that the command line is at at the moment you type them. You can see where you are as this is written on each line at the left of your cursor. You can also use the command line to navigate from one place in your file system to another, which will cause the text on the left of the cursor to change. For example if you are currently in the Downloads folder, and you say the command line to 'make a new file with the name new.txt', new.txt will be made in the Downloads folder. If you don't want new.txt to be in the Downloads folder, but in the Documents folder instead, you will first have to navigate to this folder and than execute the command to create the new file. 

We will learn more about Command line later. For now we will only use it for Git. Your coach will help you to navigate to the right folder. As long as you keep your terminal window open after that, you can just enter the commands of the tutorial without having to worry about the right folder. Don't panic if you closed the window by accident, this happens almost every day to experienced developers too. Just ask your coach to help you get to the right place again. 

